# Roadmap for future ATBD development

The soil moisture (SM) ATBD builds on heritage from L-band SMOS/SMAP missions and allows for the simultaneous retrieval of soil moisture and vegetation optical depth (VOD) upon inversion of the tau-omega radiative transfer model. CIMR L-band at its native resolution meets the observations needs of hydro climatology (~60 km, daily), yet a potential CIMR enhanced L-band is targeted to meet the needs of global hydrometeorology (~15 km, daily).  The exploitation of CIMR oversampling, by means of Backus-Gilbert or Scatterometer Image Reconstruction techniques applied at L-band will be instrumental to this end. This will be developed as part of a CIMR Remapper tool and is out of the scope of the DEVALGO project. In the v2 SM ATBD, a prototype algorithm for CIMR L-band sharpening with  C/X-bands to estimate an equivalent 15 km L-band has been developed, based on the approach of Santi et al., 2010. The study by Zhang et al., 2024 based on SMAP/AMSR radiometry data, supports the conclusion that CIMR C-band can capture information for the spatial enhancement of CIMR L-band to ~15 km. The investigation of OZA correction at C/X-bands as well as the development of higher other and non-linear approaches for L-band sharpening will be central for the development of this multi-frequency product in future versions of the ATBD.

A central part of v2 SM ATBD has been validation and inter-comparison of two soil moisture products, the first based on the inversion of L-band only TBs at its native resolution (~60 km, 36 km EASE2 grid), and the second one based on the inversion of disaggregated L-band using C-band at a finer resolution (~15 km, 9 km EASE2 grid). The validation has been focused on CIMR L1B simulated data. Further steps require the application of the approach to satellite data and validation of the obtained SM estimates against in-situ and model reference data. Validation shall follow the soil moisture product validation good practices protocol (Montzka et al., 2020), potentially leveraging the Quality Assurance for Soil Moisture (QA4SM) service.

For the development of future versions of the ATBD, one central task should be the global calibration of soil roughness and effective scattering albedo across L, C, and X bands with satellite data. This new calibration shall be assessed against the proposed calibration in the current prototype, which is based on the SMOS-IC retrieval algorithm (Fernández-Moran et al. 2017b). Another important aspect is the land surface temperature which is needed as input for the SM retrieval algorithm. In the current prototype, ERA5 skin and soil temperatures are proposed as primary temperature ancillary datasets, but the potential use of an LST estimate from  The use of CIMR's Ka/Kuhigher frequency bands should be a subject of future investigations (e.g. see  for estimating land surface temperature, necessary as an input in the SM algorithm, will be under study. Ka/Ku bands will serve this purpose {cite:p}`holmes2009,prigent2016toward,jimenez2017inversion` Holmes et al., 2009, Song et al., 2019). This approach will potentially allow for enhanced retrievals exploiting CIMR multi-frequency capabilities. A feasibility study involving recalibration of soil roughness and effective scattering albedo should be performed to this end involving SMAP and WindSat radiometry to ensure a consistent sampling at 6 AM/6 PM. will be tested against the use of ERA5 skin and soil temperatures, established as the primary temperature ancillary datasets.

For estimating microwave vegetation indices (MMVI), the SM product at <15 km scale may serve as an initial guess to invert the tau-omega model and estimate time-dynamic VOD and ω from CIMR L-, C-, and X-bands (following the work of {cite:p}`Baur2021`, at L-band). These microwave vegetation parameters represent the absorption and scattering properties of microwaves at different canopy depths, which are deeper at lower frequencies. This allows capturing interactions between various wavelengths and canopy components such as branches, stems, and leaves, relating to significant vegetation characteristics like vegetation water content and above-ground biomass.
